# Frequently Asked Question

## Security

### Random source:

- Does the hardware wallet have an entropy source?

  - Yes, the `True` random number generator peripheral implemented on **STM32**
    microcontrollers is based on an analog circuit. This circuit generates a 
    continuous analog noise that will be used on the RNG processing in order to 
    produce a 32-bit random number. To verify the randomness of the numbers 
    generated by the random number generator peripheral embedded in a selection 
    of STM32 microcontrollers. This verification is based on the National 
    Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Statistical Test Suite (STS) 
    SP 800-22rev1a (April 2010). For more details check out the [STM32 
    microcontrollers random number generation validation using NIST statistical 
    test suite](https://www.st.com/content/ccc/resource/technical/document/application_note/4a/6a/82/05/8e/9e/4e/94/DM00073853.pdf/files/DM00073853.pdf/jcr:content/translations/en.DM00073853.pdf).

- Does the hardware wallet get entropy from the host machine?

  - Yes, at the mnemonic generation time is expected to recive a 32 bytes 
    buffer with random data with an entropy level of at least 4.0 bits/symbol.

- How does the hardware wallet get entropy?

  - The hardware wallet generate internal entropy from a peripheral device and
    combine this with a external entropy recived from the user host device.

- How does the hardware wallet ensure we have enough entropy to generate a seed?

  - The device build an histogram with the random buffer and mesure the Shannon
    entropy level over this histogram, a value of at least 4.0 bits/symbol is 
    considered good engouth.
