README.md, before:

# Skycoin hardware wallet

## Overview

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet)

This folder provides a firmware implementing skycoin features, and tools to test it.

The firmware itself is under [tiny-firmware](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet/tree/master/tiny-firmware) folder.
The firmware had been copied and modified from [this repository](https://github.com/trezor/trezor-mcu).

The [skycoin-api](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet/tree/master/skycoin-api) folder contains the definition of the functions implementing the skycoin features.

The [skycoin-cli](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet-go/) defines golang functions that communicate with the firmware.

There is also a [javascript API](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet-js/).

Follow up [the wiki](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet/wiki/Hardware-wallet-project-advancement) to keep track of project advancement.

## Install tools

Follow the instructions written on [tiny-firware/README.md](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet/blob/master/tiny-firmware/README.md)

## Build instructions:

### Build and run emulator

```
make run-emulator
```

### Build a bootloader

```
make bootloader # Your firmware is bootloader-no-memory-protect.bin
```

### Build a bootloader with memory protection enabled

Careful if you flash and run that bootloader on the device it will activate a memory protection that will close access to flash memory.

You won't be able to flash your device with an st-link again.

```
make bootloader-mem-protect # Your firmware is bootloader-memory-protected.bin
```

### Build a firmware

```
make firmware  # Your firmware is tiny-firmware/skycoin.bin
```

### Sign firmware

```
make sign # Your firmware is tiny-firmware/skycoin.bin
```

### Combine bootloader and firmware

```
make full-firmware # this will create a full-firmware-no-mem-protect.bin file
```

### Combine a memory protected bootloader and firmware

Careful if you flash and run that bootloader on the device it will activate a memory protection that will close access to flash memory.

You won't be able to flash your device with an st-link again.

```
make full-firmware-mem-protect # this will create a full-firmware-memory-protected.bin file 
```

### Create a release

The following instruction creates a full firmware with:
* firmware version: 1.1.0
* bootloader version 1.2.0
```bash
make combined-release-mem-protect firmware_version=1.1.0 bootloader_version=1.2.0
```

Commit message:

[ci] refs #50 - Implement VERSION_BOOTLOADER and VERSION_FIRMWARE in Makefile

README.md, after:

# Skycoin hardware wallet

## Overview

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet)

This folder provides a firmware implementing skycoin features, and tools to test it.

The firmware itself is under [tiny-firmware](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet/tree/master/tiny-firmware) folder.
The firmware had been copied and modified from [this repository](https://github.com/trezor/trezor-mcu).

The [skycoin-api](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet/tree/master/skycoin-api) folder contains the definition of the functions implementing the skycoin features.

The [skycoin-cli](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet-go/) defines golang functions that communicate with the firmware.

There is also a [javascript API](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet-js/).

Follow up [the wiki](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet/wiki/Hardware-wallet-project-advancement) to keep track of project advancement.

## Install tools

Follow the instructions written on [tiny-firware/README.md](https://github.com/skycoin/hardware-wallet/blob/master/tiny-firmware/README.md)

## Build instructions:

### Build and run emulator

```
make run-emulator
```

### Build a bootloader

```
make bootloader # Your firmware is bootloader-no-memory-protect.bin
```

### Build a bootloader with memory protection enabled

Careful if you flash and run that bootloader on the device it will activate a memory protection that will close access to flash memory.

You won't be able to flash your device with an st-link again.

```
make bootloader-mem-protect # Your firmware is bootloader-memory-protected.bin
```

### Build a firmware

```
make firmware  # Your firmware is tiny-firmware/skycoin.bin
```

### Sign firmware

```
make sign # Your firmware is tiny-firmware/skycoin.bin
```

### Combine bootloader and firmware

```
make full-firmware # this will create a full-firmware-no-mem-protect.bin file
```

### Combine a memory protected bootloader and firmware

Careful if you flash and run that bootloader on the device it will activate a memory protection that will close access to flash memory.

You won't be able to flash your device with an st-link again.

```
make full-firmware-mem-protect # this will create a full-firmware-memory-protected.bin file 
```

### Create a release

The following instruction creates a full firmware with:
* firmware version: 1.1.0
* bootloader version 1.2.0

```bash
make combined-release-mem-protect VERSION_FIRMWARE=1.1.0 VERSION_BOOTLOADER=1.2.0
```

Variables `VERSION_FIRMWARE` and `VERSION_BOOTLOADER` are optional and default to the contents of `tiny-firmware/VERSION` and `tiny-firmware/bootloader/VERSION` respectively.
